{
  "all_ballots": {
    "Adrian Farrel": [
      {
        "ad": "Adrian Farrel",
        "end": "2014-05-13 06:01:40-07:00",
        "end_reason": "new_position",
        "start": "2014-05-01 13:42:40-07:00",
        "text": null,
        "type": "No Record"
      },
      {
        "ad": "Adrian Farrel",
        "end": "2015-01-23 10:37:14-08:00",
        "end_reason": "evaluation_closed",
        "start": "2014-05-13 06:01:40-07:00",
        "text": null,
        "type": "No Objection"
      }
    ],
    "Alia Atlas": [
      {
        "ad": "Alia Atlas",
        "end": "2015-01-23 10:37:14-08:00",
        "end_reason": "evaluation_closed",
        "start": "2014-05-01 13:42:40-07:00",
        "text": null,
        "type": "No Record"
      }
    ],
    "Alissa Cooper": [
      {
        "ad": "Alissa Cooper",
        "end": "2014-05-13 13:47:16-07:00",
        "end_reason": "new_position",
        "start": "2014-05-01 13:42:40-07:00",
        "text": null,
        "type": "No Record"
      },
      {
        "ad": "Alissa Cooper",
        "end": "2014-05-14 09:55:16-07:00",
        "end_reason": "position_updated",
        "start": "2014-05-13 13:47:16-07:00",
        "text": "Section 6 strikes me as somewhat incomplete. I can appreciate that this is not the place to discuss every security issue relevant to RTCWEB, but this section makes it sound as if the security threats are limited to DoS and surreptitious stream creation, leaving out considerations related to confidentiality, user identity, etc. At the very least, it seems like this section should stress that the scope of the discussion here is limited to those things (and maybe give a reason why?), and that a fuller treatment of the relevant security threats and mitigations is available in  draft-ietf-rtcweb-security  and draft-ietf-rtcweb-security-arch.",
        "type": "Discuss"
      },
      {
        "ad": "Alissa Cooper",
        "end": "2015-01-23 10:37:14-08:00",
        "end_reason": "evaluation_closed",
        "start": "2014-05-14 09:55:16-07:00",
        "text": null,
        "type": "No Objection"
      }
    ],
    "Barry Leiba": [
      {
        "ad": "Barry Leiba",
        "end": "2014-05-08 20:27:24-07:00",
        "end_reason": "new_position",
        "start": "2014-05-01 13:42:40-07:00",
        "text": null,
        "type": "No Record"
      },
      {
        "ad": "Barry Leiba",
        "end": "2015-01-23 10:37:14-08:00",
        "end_reason": "evaluation_closed",
        "start": "2014-05-08 20:27:24-07:00",
        "text": null,
        "type": "No Objection"
      }
    ],
    "Benoit Claise": [
      {
        "ad": "Benoit Claise",
        "end": "2014-05-14 22:43:44-07:00",
        "end_reason": "new_position",
        "start": "2014-05-01 13:42:40-07:00",
        "text": null,
        "type": "No Record"
      },
      {
        "ad": "Benoit Claise",
        "end": "2014-12-17 08:13:27-08:00",
        "end_reason": "position_updated",
        "start": "2014-05-14 22:43:44-07:00",
        "text": "I have not seen any reply to Tina's OPS-DIR review, dated from April 25th. That makes it a DISCUSS to me, even if not all points in Tina's feedback are DISCUSS-worthy. See  http://www.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ops-dir/current/msg00274.html",
        "type": "Discuss"
      },
      {
        "ad": "Benoit Claise",
        "end": "2015-01-23 10:37:14-08:00",
        "end_reason": "evaluation_closed",
        "start": "2014-12-17 08:13:27-08:00",
        "text": null,
        "type": "No Objection"
      }
    ],
    "Brian Haberman": [
      {
        "ad": "Brian Haberman",
        "end": "2014-05-12 07:40:53-07:00",
        "end_reason": "new_position",
        "start": "2014-05-01 13:42:40-07:00",
        "text": null,
        "type": "No Record"
      },
      {
        "ad": "Brian Haberman",
        "end": "2015-01-23 10:37:14-08:00",
        "end_reason": "evaluation_closed",
        "start": "2014-05-12 07:40:53-07:00",
        "text": null,
        "type": "No Objection"
      }
    ],
    "Jari Arkko": [
      {
        "ad": "Jari Arkko",
        "end": "2014-05-15 07:35:59-07:00",
        "end_reason": "new_position",
        "start": "2014-05-01 13:42:40-07:00",
        "text": null,
        "type": "No Record"
      },
      {
        "ad": "Jari Arkko",
        "end": "2014-12-17 11:26:12-08:00",
        "end_reason": "position_updated",
        "start": "2014-05-15 07:35:59-07:00",
        "text": "Thank you for writing a good document. Before recommending the final approval, I would like to see a response to Brian Carpenter's Gen-ART review, however. I believe that at least his first comment on different combinations of IPv4/IPv6 is something that deserves to be addressed in the document. OLD: \u00a0  o\u00a0 Clients can be on networks with a NAT using any type of Mapping \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 and Filtering behaviors (as described in  RFC4787 ). NEW: \u00a0  o\u00a0 Clients can be on networks with a NAT or IPv4-IPv6 translation devices using any type of Mapping \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 and Filtering behaviors (as described in  RFC4787 ).",
        "type": "Discuss"
      },
      {
        "ad": "Jari Arkko",
        "end": "2015-01-23 10:37:14-08:00",
        "end_reason": "evaluation_closed",
        "start": "2014-12-17 11:26:12-08:00",
        "text": null,
        "type": "No Objection"
      }
    ],
    "Joel Jaeggli": [
      {
        "ad": "Joel Jaeggli",
        "end": "2014-05-11 21:38:03-07:00",
        "end_reason": "new_position",
        "start": "2014-05-01 13:42:40-07:00",
        "text": null,
        "type": "No Record"
      },
      {
        "ad": "Joel Jaeggli",
        "end": "2015-01-23 10:37:14-08:00",
        "end_reason": "evaluation_closed",
        "start": "2014-05-11 21:38:03-07:00",
        "text": null,
        "type": "No Objection"
      }
    ],
    "Kathleen Moriarty": [
      {
        "ad": "Kathleen Moriarty",
        "end": "2014-05-13 15:16:17-07:00",
        "end_reason": "new_position",
        "start": "2014-05-01 13:42:40-07:00",
        "text": null,
        "type": "No Record"
      },
      {
        "ad": "Kathleen Moriarty",
        "end": "2015-01-23 10:37:14-08:00",
        "end_reason": "evaluation_closed",
        "start": "2014-05-13 15:16:17-07:00",
        "text": null,
        "type": "No Objection"
      }
    ],
    "Martin Stiemerling": [
      {
        "ad": "Martin Stiemerling",
        "end": "2014-05-14 07:16:44-07:00",
        "end_reason": "new_position",
        "start": "2014-05-01 13:42:40-07:00",
        "text": null,
        "type": "No Record"
      },
      {
        "ad": "Martin Stiemerling",
        "end": "2015-01-23 10:37:14-08:00",
        "end_reason": "evaluation_closed",
        "start": "2014-05-14 07:16:44-07:00",
        "text": null,
        "type": "No Objection"
      }
    ],
    "Pete Resnick": [
      {
        "ad": "Pete Resnick",
        "end": "2014-05-14 19:20:36-07:00",
        "end_reason": "new_position",
        "start": "2014-05-01 13:42:40-07:00",
        "text": null,
        "type": "No Record"
      },
      {
        "ad": "Pete Resnick",
        "end": "2015-01-23 10:37:14-08:00",
        "end_reason": "evaluation_closed",
        "start": "2014-05-14 19:20:36-07:00",
        "text": "This document is a mishmash of UI requirements, local browser implementation requirements, and protocol requirements, with no distinctions being made among them. Given the IETF's notorious lack of skill in producing good UI work, and a great deal of text over the years indicating that we don't do UI and we don't constrain local implementation choices when they don't affect interoperability, I'm very dubious about the worth of this document. Then the introductions says: \u00a0  This document was developed in an initial phase of the work with \u00a0  rather minor updates at later stages.\u00a0 It has not really served as a \u00a0  tool in deciding features or scope for the WGs efforts so far.\u00a0 It is \u00a0  proposed to be used in a later phase to evaluate the protocols and \u00a0  solutions developed by the WG. So the document was not found to be of use on input to the WG, and it's not clear to me what exactly happens if the evaluation concludes that the protocols and solutions don't meet these requirements at the end. I don't see the point in publishing this document, certainly at this time. Moreover, there are things in this document which strike me as problematic. I suspect things like those said in 3.3.1.1 will end up being (inappropriately) used as a bludgeon later, for no good reason: \"Well, the requirements document published by the IETF says that you have to have a self-view during session establishment. You don't have self-view during session establishment. You're non-conformant and therefore will not be allowed in the market.\" Even mentioning self-view during session establishment in an IETF document gives me the creeps; I can imagine UIs with the feature, and I can imagine them without. Some of the requirements seem awfully suspicious. For example: \u00a0  F13\u00a0 \u00a0  The browser must encrypt, authenticate and \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0  integrity protect media and data on a \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0  per-packet basis, and must drop incoming media \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0  and data packets that fail the per-packet \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0  integrity check.\u00a0 In addition, the browser \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0  must support a mechanism for cryptographically \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0  binding media and data security keys to the \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0  user identity (see R-ID-BINDING in [ RFC5479 ]). Maybe \"per-packet encryption\" means something magical, but can't we imagine a protocol decision that ends us up with stream-based or body-based encryption that is not \"per-packet\" that would still be perfectly reasonable? I wonder whether this document is over-constraining. And finally, we have stuff like this: \"3.3.10.\u00a0 Hockey Game Viewer\" \"3.4.2.\u00a0 Fedex Call\" Cute, but seriously? Do we really need cultural references like this? I can't support the publication of this document. I won't stand in the way if it has consensus behind it, but I don't see the point.",
        "type": "Abstain"
      }
    ],
    "Richard Barnes": [
      {
        "ad": "Richard Barnes",
        "end": "2014-05-01 13:42:40-07:00",
        "end_reason": "new_position",
        "start": "2014-05-01 13:42:40-07:00",
        "text": null,
        "type": "No Record"
      },
      {
        "ad": "Richard Barnes",
        "end": "2015-01-23 10:37:14-08:00",
        "end_reason": "evaluation_closed",
        "start": "2014-05-01 13:42:40-07:00",
        "text": null,
        "type": "Yes"
      }
    ],
    "Spencer Dawkins": [
      {
        "ad": "Spencer Dawkins",
        "end": "2014-05-13 19:06:59-07:00",
        "end_reason": "new_position",
        "start": "2014-05-01 13:42:40-07:00",
        "text": null,
        "type": "No Record"
      },
      {
        "ad": "Spencer Dawkins",
        "end": "2015-01-23 10:37:14-08:00",
        "end_reason": "evaluation_closed",
        "start": "2014-05-13 19:06:59-07:00",
        "text": null,
        "type": "No Objection"
      }
    ],
    "Stephen Farrell": [
      {
        "ad": "Stephen Farrell",
        "end": "2014-05-13 17:43:50-07:00",
        "end_reason": "new_position",
        "start": "2014-05-01 13:42:40-07:00",
        "text": null,
        "type": "No Record"
      },
      {
        "ad": "Stephen Farrell",
        "end": "2014-10-21 03:39:03-07:00",
        "end_reason": "discuss_updated",
        "start": "2014-05-13 17:43:50-07:00",
        "text": "Nice document, thanks. But I have some issues to check. Nothing huge I'd say. (1) F13: Authenticate is ambiguous here (and in WebRTC generally). There appears to be an understated need for an IdP here, and its really the IdP's that are authenticating (one another and) the endpoints. Did the WG discuss any form of endpoint auth that's based on e.g. an SSH leap-of-faith like setup where the endpoints can re-authenticate one another after a first contact? It'd be a bad thing if the WG made that impossible and effectively required IdPs I think.\u00a0  (2) F20: Is there not a missing requirement that one ought not be able to easily consume the bandwidth of someone else's TURN server just because you once made a call via that? (3) F36: Its not clear to me that this can ever be done safely, since JS code with this privilege can take screenshots every 10ms and hence get everything.\u00a0 A \"must\" level requirement seems quite inappropriate even if there is a real requirement there to allow some support for screensharing.  (4) 3.3.12.1 - if the sound file can be local and played as a result of gameplay then that implies some form of authorization for access to files on the local filesystem - is that requirement actually being worked? (5) 6.2: why is revocation only \"expected\" and not a MUST? And why doesn't this section have any 2119 terms? I think privilege revocation has to be a 2119 MUST. (But am open to argument that that MUST ought apply to the API not protocol.)",
        "type": "Discuss"
      },
      {
        "ad": "Stephen Farrell",
        "end": "2014-12-18 02:49:14-08:00",
        "end_reason": "discuss_updated",
        "start": "2014-10-21 03:39:03-07:00",
        "text": "Discuss updated Oct 21. Nice document, thanks. But I have some issues to check. Nothing huge I'd say. (1) Cleared, WG assured me they would consider LoF/TOFU. (2) F20: Is there not a missing requirement that one ought not be able to easily consume the bandwidth of someone else's TURN server just because you once made a call via that? (3) Cleared. WG assured me it'll be handled in the security draft.  (4) 3.3.12.1 - if the sound file can be local and played as a result of gameplay then that implies some form of authorization for access to files on the local filesystem - is that requirement actually being worked? (5) 6.2: why is revocation only \"expected\" and not a MUST? And why doesn't this section have any 2119 terms? I think privilege revocation has to be a 2119 MUST. (But am open to argument that that MUST ought apply to the API not protocol.)",
        "type": "Discuss"
      },
      {
        "ad": "Stephen Farrell",
        "end": "2015-01-23 06:32:40-08:00",
        "end_reason": "position_updated",
        "start": "2014-12-18 02:49:14-08:00",
        "text": "Discuss updated for -15, a bit more mail to check stuff and then we're likely done. Nice document, thanks. But I have some issues to check. Nothing huge I'd say. (1) Cleared, WG assured me they would consider LoF/TOFU. (2) F20: Is there not a missing requirement that one ought not be able to easily consume the bandwidth of someone else's TURN server just because you once made a call via that? (3) Cleared. WG assured me it'll be handled in the security draft.  (4) 3.3.12.1 - if the sound file can be local and played as a result of gameplay then that implies some form of authorization for access to files on the local filesystem - is that requirement actually being worked? (5) 6.2: why is revocation only \"expected\" and not a MUST? And why doesn't this section have any 2119 terms? I think privilege revocation has to be a 2119 MUST. (But am open to argument that that MUST ought apply to the API not protocol.)",
        "type": "Discuss"
      },
      {
        "ad": "Stephen Farrell",
        "end": "2015-01-23 10:37:14-08:00",
        "end_reason": "evaluation_closed",
        "start": "2015-01-23 06:32:40-08:00",
        "text": null,
        "type": "No Objection"
      }
    ],
    "Ted Lemon": [
      {
        "ad": "Ted Lemon",
        "end": "2015-01-23 10:37:14-08:00",
        "end_reason": "evaluation_closed",
        "start": "2014-05-01 13:42:40-07:00",
        "text": null,
        "type": "No Record"
      }
    ]
  },
  "doc_name": "rfc7478",
  "evaluation_end": "2015-01-23 10:37:14-08:00",
  "evaluation_start": "2014-05-01 13:42:40-07:00"
}