{
  "all_ballots": {
    "Alia Atlas": [
      {
        "ad": "Alia Atlas",
        "end": "2016-01-20 10:29:20-08:00",
        "end_reason": "new_position",
        "start": "2016-01-05 07:34:43-08:00",
        "text": null,
        "type": "No Record"
      },
      {
        "ad": "Alia Atlas",
        "end": "2016-04-13 09:29:24-07:00",
        "end_reason": "evaluation_closed",
        "start": "2016-01-20 10:29:20-08:00",
        "text": null,
        "type": "No Objection"
      }
    ],
    "Alissa Cooper": [
      {
        "ad": "Alissa Cooper",
        "end": "2016-01-20 11:29:47-08:00",
        "end_reason": "new_position",
        "start": "2016-01-05 07:34:43-08:00",
        "text": null,
        "type": "No Record"
      },
      {
        "ad": "Alissa Cooper",
        "end": "2016-04-13 09:29:24-07:00",
        "end_reason": "evaluation_closed",
        "start": "2016-01-20 11:29:47-08:00",
        "text": null,
        "type": "No Objection"
      }
    ],
    "Alvaro Retana": [
      {
        "ad": "Alvaro Retana",
        "end": "2016-01-05 07:34:43-08:00",
        "end_reason": "new_position",
        "start": "2016-01-05 07:34:43-08:00",
        "text": null,
        "type": "No Record"
      },
      {
        "ad": "Alvaro Retana",
        "end": "2016-04-13 09:29:24-07:00",
        "end_reason": "evaluation_closed",
        "start": "2016-01-05 07:34:43-08:00",
        "text": null,
        "type": "Yes"
      }
    ],
    "Barry Leiba": [
      {
        "ad": "Barry Leiba",
        "end": "2016-02-03 13:33:16-08:00",
        "end_reason": "new_position",
        "start": "2016-01-05 07:34:43-08:00",
        "text": null,
        "type": "No Record"
      },
      {
        "ad": "Barry Leiba",
        "end": "2016-04-08 00:00:00+00:00",
        "end_reason": "ad_term_ended",
        "start": "2016-02-03 13:33:16-08:00",
        "text": "I agree with Alia's comment, \"This draft doesn't feel as if it will be a useful RFC in 2 years.\"\u00a0 I think this is an example of a document that should be kept within the working group and used to guide its progress, but that doesn't seem to be a good candidate for going into the RFC archival series.\u00a0 I don't think my view on this should get in the way of publication, and so my \"abstain\" position.",
        "type": "Abstain"
      }
    ],
    "Ben Campbell": [
      {
        "ad": "Ben Campbell",
        "end": "2016-02-03 13:30:16-08:00",
        "end_reason": "new_position",
        "start": "2016-01-05 07:34:43-08:00",
        "text": null,
        "type": "No Record"
      },
      {
        "ad": "Ben Campbell",
        "end": "2016-04-13 09:29:24-07:00",
        "end_reason": "evaluation_closed",
        "start": "2016-02-03 13:30:16-08:00",
        "text": null,
        "type": "No Objection"
      }
    ],
    "Benoit Claise": [
      {
        "ad": "Benoit Claise",
        "end": "2016-01-18 14:49:40-08:00",
        "end_reason": "new_position",
        "start": "2016-01-05 07:34:43-08:00",
        "text": null,
        "type": "No Record"
      },
      {
        "ad": "Benoit Claise",
        "end": "2016-01-18 14:53:59-08:00",
        "end_reason": "discuss_updated",
        "start": "2016-01-18 14:49:40-08:00",
        "text": "I would like to discuss this point with the responsible area director during the telechat. No action from the authors is required on this point at this point. The manageability considerations section is a direct cut/paste from a charter (i.e. minimal effort) + two informative references to drafts, not even WG docs. What are we suppose to conclude from this?",
        "type": "Discuss"
      },
      {
        "ad": "Benoit Claise",
        "end": "2016-03-01 07:16:12-08:00",
        "end_reason": "position_updated",
        "start": "2016-01-18 14:53:59-08:00",
        "text": "I would like to discuss this point with the responsible area director during the telechat. No action from the authors is required on this point at this point. The manageability considerations section is a direct cut/paste from a charter (i.e. minimal effort) + two informative references to drafts, not even WG docs. What are we suppose to conclude from this, in terms of manageability requirements?",
        "type": "Discuss"
      },
      {
        "ad": "Benoit Claise",
        "end": "2016-04-13 09:29:24-07:00",
        "end_reason": "evaluation_closed",
        "start": "2016-03-01 07:16:12-08:00",
        "text": null,
        "type": "No Objection"
      }
    ],
    "Brian Haberman": [
      {
        "ad": "Brian Haberman",
        "end": "2016-02-03 06:13:36-08:00",
        "end_reason": "new_position",
        "start": "2016-01-05 07:34:43-08:00",
        "text": null,
        "type": "No Record"
      },
      {
        "ad": "Brian Haberman",
        "end": "2016-02-03 06:14:32-08:00",
        "end_reason": "discuss_updated",
        "start": "2016-02-03 06:13:36-08:00",
        "text": "* Section 3.4 If the intent is to create a new RH type how will the interoperability or backward compatibility be possible? Specifically because intermediate nodes (that are segment routing hops) that encounter unknown RH types are required to drop the packet and send an ICMPv6 Parameter Problem back. * Security considerations In general this document does not talk anything about the security issues with IPv6 routing headers and how they would be avoided. e.g. The following paper describes an attack. \u00a0  [CanSecWest07]\u00a0 Biondi, P. and A. Ebalard, \"IPv6 Routing Header \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0  Security\", CanSecWest Security Conference 2007, \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0  April 2007. \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0   http://www.secdev.org/conf/IPv6_RH_security-csw07.pdf I think the security considerations are very light and need to be greatly improved.",
        "type": "Discuss"
      },
      {
        "ad": "Brian Haberman",
        "end": "2016-03-01 07:55:50-08:00",
        "end_reason": "position_updated",
        "start": "2016-02-03 06:14:32-08:00",
        "text": "The following is a training review from the Suresh Krishnan (incoming INT AD) * Section 3.4 If the intent is to create a new RH type how will the interoperability or backward compatibility be possible? Specifically because intermediate nodes (that are segment routing hops) that encounter unknown RH types are required to drop the packet and send an ICMPv6 Parameter Problem back. * Security considerations In general this document does not talk anything about the security issues with IPv6 routing headers and how they would be avoided. e.g. The following paper describes an attack. \u00a0  [CanSecWest07]\u00a0 Biondi, P. and A. Ebalard, \"IPv6 Routing Header \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0  Security\", CanSecWest Security Conference 2007, \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0  April 2007. \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0   http://www.secdev.org/conf/IPv6_RH_security-csw07.pdf I think the security considerations are very light and need to be greatly improved.",
        "type": "Discuss"
      },
      {
        "ad": "Brian Haberman",
        "end": "2016-04-08 00:00:00+00:00",
        "end_reason": "ad_term_ended",
        "start": "2016-03-01 07:55:50-08:00",
        "text": "Thank you for addressing the discuss points raised... I do not see a benefit in the publication of this document (or most problem statement documents) as a standalone document. The type of justification provided in this document could easily exist as a section within a proposed solution.",
        "type": "Abstain"
      }
    ],
    "Deborah Brungard": [
      {
        "ad": "Deborah Brungard",
        "end": "2016-01-31 15:03:18-08:00",
        "end_reason": "new_position",
        "start": "2016-01-05 07:34:43-08:00",
        "text": null,
        "type": "No Record"
      },
      {
        "ad": "Deborah Brungard",
        "end": "2016-04-12 15:26:16-07:00",
        "end_reason": "position_updated",
        "start": "2016-01-31 15:03:18-08:00",
        "text": "The main focus of my discuss are the disparaging comments on MPLS and RSVP-TE for the apparent purpose of justifying the need for SPRING. The statements in Section 3.3, paragraph 2, are not accurate. As an IETF document, even though Informational, it harms another IETF technology. This paragraph needs to be removed. Very disappointing to see this unfair comparison of centralized control vs. distributed control in an IETF document.",
        "type": "Discuss"
      },
      {
        "ad": "Deborah Brungard",
        "end": "2016-04-13 09:29:24-07:00",
        "end_reason": "evaluation_closed",
        "start": "2016-04-12 15:26:16-07:00",
        "text": "Thanks for addressing my Discuss and improving Section 3.3. I still find the various comparisons on using a distributed approach vs. a centralized controller as lacking in accuracy and a poor justification for SPRING. Just say simply you do not want to use a distributed control plane. This is not the first time that IETF had this requirement for one of their data planes. I won't block publication, so my \"Abstain\" position.",
        "type": "Abstain"
      }
    ],
    "Jari Arkko": [
      {
        "ad": "Jari Arkko",
        "end": "2016-02-03 04:37:51-08:00",
        "end_reason": "new_position",
        "start": "2016-01-05 07:34:43-08:00",
        "text": null,
        "type": "No Record"
      },
      {
        "ad": "Jari Arkko",
        "end": "2016-04-13 09:29:24-07:00",
        "end_reason": "evaluation_closed",
        "start": "2016-02-03 04:37:51-08:00",
        "text": null,
        "type": "No Objection"
      }
    ],
    "Joel Jaeggli": [
      {
        "ad": "Joel Jaeggli",
        "end": "2016-02-04 01:00:11-08:00",
        "end_reason": "new_position",
        "start": "2016-01-05 07:34:43-08:00",
        "text": null,
        "type": "No Record"
      },
      {
        "ad": "Joel Jaeggli",
        "end": "2016-04-13 09:29:24-07:00",
        "end_reason": "evaluation_closed",
        "start": "2016-02-04 01:00:11-08:00",
        "text": null,
        "type": "No Objection"
      }
    ],
    "Kathleen Moriarty": [
      {
        "ad": "Kathleen Moriarty",
        "end": "2016-04-13 09:29:24-07:00",
        "end_reason": "evaluation_closed",
        "start": "2016-01-05 07:34:43-08:00",
        "text": null,
        "type": "No Record"
      }
    ],
    "Martin Stiemerling": [
      {
        "ad": "Martin Stiemerling",
        "end": "2016-04-08 00:00:00+00:00",
        "end_reason": "ad_term_ended",
        "start": "2016-01-05 07:34:43-08:00",
        "text": null,
        "type": "No Record"
      }
    ],
    "Spencer Dawkins": [
      {
        "ad": "Spencer Dawkins",
        "end": "2016-04-13 09:29:24-07:00",
        "end_reason": "evaluation_closed",
        "start": "2016-01-05 07:34:43-08:00",
        "text": null,
        "type": "No Record"
      }
    ],
    "Stephen Farrell": [
      {
        "ad": "Stephen Farrell",
        "end": "2016-02-04 06:09:45-08:00",
        "end_reason": "new_position",
        "start": "2016-01-05 07:34:43-08:00",
        "text": null,
        "type": "No Record"
      },
      {
        "ad": "Stephen Farrell",
        "end": "2016-03-02 04:21:16-08:00",
        "end_reason": "position_updated",
        "start": "2016-02-04 06:09:45-08:00",
        "text": "I concur with the other folks who've bemoaned the fact that the security considerations text is less comprehensive than the charter text. Which document in the WG will document the security issues with SPRING generally and which WG documents currently contain the kind of security analysis called for in the charter? (I had a quick look and didn't see anything obvious.) I'm making this a DISCUSS ballot on the assumption that we're better off having the \"who's doing the work and where is it?\" discussion now and not each time a document gets to the IESG without that work having been done.",
        "type": "Discuss"
      },
      {
        "ad": "Stephen Farrell",
        "end": "2016-04-13 09:29:24-07:00",
        "end_reason": "evaluation_closed",
        "start": "2016-03-02 04:21:16-08:00",
        "text": null,
        "type": "No Objection"
      }
    ],
    "Terry Manderson": [
      {
        "ad": "Terry Manderson",
        "end": "2016-01-18 19:11:31-08:00",
        "end_reason": "new_position",
        "start": "2016-01-05 07:34:43-08:00",
        "text": null,
        "type": "No Record"
      },
      {
        "ad": "Terry Manderson",
        "end": "2016-04-06 06:36:45-07:00",
        "end_reason": "position_updated",
        "start": "2016-01-18 19:11:31-08:00",
        "text": "Thanks for putting in the effort in writing this. Firstly, I concur with Benoit's observation about text taken from the charter and laid in to the document verbatim. That tends not to help the reader and a large assumption is made that the reader understands the concerns of source based routing for partitioning VPNs, fast re-route, TE, signalling, and so on. Please consider rewriting the intro and other parts to help with understanding (for example in 3.2 Fast Reroute; microploop avoidance is listed as a requirement, however a sensible coverage of microloop avoidance is not found in the draft, nor in the nearby referenced spring-resiliency-use-cases). This also leaves me scratching my head as to why we don't see this document and the resiliency-use-cases (and others) at the same time when they are aligned? Or restructure the document to be more informative on these facets in the first case. Can the document also be explicit that while the SPRING problem/solution space needs to be cognisant of autonomous systems that share policy/interoperate across boundaries the primary port of call is in regard to the IGP. This will certainly aide in restraining everyone (esp. the reader) from trying to boil the 'internet ocean'. (this at least should be easy to address :)",
        "type": "Discuss"
      },
      {
        "ad": "Terry Manderson",
        "end": "2016-04-13 09:29:24-07:00",
        "end_reason": "evaluation_closed",
        "start": "2016-04-06 06:36:45-07:00",
        "text": null,
        "type": "No Objection"
      }
    ]
  },
  "doc_name": "rfc7855",
  "evaluation_end": "2016-04-13 09:29:24-07:00",
  "evaluation_start": "2016-01-05 07:34:43-08:00"
}